Guys when you're building a Web site whether it's for yourself or your business or brand.
One of the hardest things to do is actually find a domain name that is short and relevant and available
thanks to tech domains finding the perfect domain is actually much easier.
Programmers tech startups and brands finally have a domain of their own.
This is why Intel Viacom and even the Consumer Electronics Show are now using that tax for their domain.
So don't wait there's a black friday sale coming up it's the perfect time to secure your domain.
Ninety five percent off you can pre-register before the 23rd of November to give you an additional 10
percent off on top of that.
You just have to go to the BW go tech forward slash Chris Hawkes that's go tech forward slash my name
Chris Hong's and you can pre-register now.
Hey guys what's up.
So in this video I'm talking about the reasons why you want to learn dot net dot net specifically so
it can be confusing especially to people that are non-Microsoft people dot net core is the newest framework
from Microsoft.
It's been around for about you know I guess five years or so now but it's Microsoft's newest attempt
to go cross-platform so that is a new type of Microsoft Microsoft is always like you know make their
bread and butter on selling Windows licenses and Microsoft licenses for different software and things
like that.
So in the past few years though they've actually transitioned to be more like you know Google where
they're involved in it like open source projects and they've open sourced a lot of their content and
their visual studio code editor that everybody is using and it's really awesome.
You know what you see in front of me right here is the visual studio editor here.
This is not a visual studio code but this is one of the industry leading software development environments
that corporations.
So if you're able to run off of a Windows machine because you know unfortunately Visual Studio itself
is not fully cross-platform yet I don't believe you I'm correct I'm just trying to make sure nothing
new groundbreaking has come out but Visual Studio itself only runs on Windows and Visual Studio code.
You can still have a completely similar environment not it not as good but a very similar environment
that can still run on Mac and Linux.
So another reason why you want to learn dotnet core is Microsoft invest heavily in it and in the previous
version of dot net you can see it was actually released 16 years ago.
That's a long time.
So there have been dotnet developers in this industry for 16 years so you can pretty much bet that dot
core is going to be around for the next 16 years as well.
So if you're a new developer jumping into something new like that you know four or five years from now
even if you couldn't land a job for four or five years if you're writing dotnet core every single day
like I just think it's impossible that you wouldn't be able to find your foot in the industry like if
you just simply focused on something emerging.
That's my opinion anyway.
I could be wrong.
So there's nothing stopping anybody from actually getting started with Dot Net or whether you're on
Mac Windows or Linux Sheezus you have to download the documentation's online.
It's pretty pretty good.
There's also a course that I have available and then this horse here is going to start from just like.
Basically I'll show you how to set up static web servers with cash for a web server which is a cross-platform
dotnet core web server so if you're just interested in doing it like a static web site I'll get you
up or running quickly with something like that on this tutorial series.
Beyond that there's going to be more concepts of you know populating views and MVC and and you know
the web API and things like that.
In addition to that I'll teach you some of the more modern concepts although I don't like delve too
deeply into that I'm going to build Branch I'm going to branch off courses for a different deep conversations
like inversion of control but I do actually focus on explaining that he can have good unit testing and
things like that is really important.
Dotnet core reason another reason why you want to learn is that an X or three is coming out in early
20:19 and it's going to be really big is there going to be a lot of changes.
There's a lot of performance improvements and already gotten that core one which is the latest version
and the one that I base this course off of is is extremely performant over the previous Dot Net Framework.
The awesome thing about dotnet court 3 though is it's actually going to bring back S'pore so you could
actually build these and when forms out applications like using like WPA and things like that and XML
and you can build software applications that are cross-platform.
Where are you going to do stuff like that that worked only on Windows.
This is actually going to work and and Mac and Linux as well.
So yes my tutorial uses visual studio community 20:17 which is a great product and it only works on
Windows you if you're on Mac or Linux if you like why I'm not able to do that.
Well you can number one set up your C-Sharp environments to work with Visual Studio code.
If you wanted to do that through extension methods here by looking for C Sharp and you can set up your
environment here to use dot net core and stuff like that and even debug Similarly I don't actually do
that myself.
I'm using Visual Studio.
Another option though if you're on Mac or Linux is to just download a virtual machine so you can use
something like Virtual Box which is free and you can fire up virtual machines that you could have windows
simulated environments enough to just at least install the idea and started developing with C-Sharp
and dynamic or on Windows if you wanted to him.
Here you can see I have virtual box installed and I have it like in a buntu system that is currently
powered off.
But if I want to simulate in a bunch environment I just go out and fire that up and I work out of my
console here and then if I need to actually like S-sh into my my Windows Server which is also a Linux
system where all my web sites are hosted in everything I just use Poddy and just like I said S-sh tunnelled
right into the server.
So whether your Mac Windows or Linux I guess my point is that like you can there's tools out there to
basically be able to work with all the environments or at least simulate replicate it you know it's
you it's easier just to work with a native machine like you know for Windows or Apple development.
I've been so close to just buying a Mac book so you know I can at least just get that real feel of Apple
development because I've never actually program with an Apple computer.
But I'm not sure like I've never been an Apple guy I've always been a PC guy ever since I was a kid
so you know I will you know play with it I consider it more of a toy.
But you know my point is I guess is like they're expensive and if you have a machine you just go and
use these virtual machines Darger things like that you know.